.TH ngrams 5 "November 5, 2011" "version 1.0" "Miscellaneous"

.SH INTRODUCTION
Autocorpus is a set of utilities that enable automatic extraction of
language corpora and language models from publicly available datasets.
For example, it provides the full set of tools to translate the
entire English Wikipedia from a 30+GB XML file to a clean n-gram
language model, all in a matter of a few hours.

This document describes how to accomplish common tasks using the
Autocorpus tools.

.SH PLAINTEXT WIKIPEDIA
Autocorpus includes two tools that enable extraction and conversion to plaintext
of Wikipedia articles:
.B wiki-articles
and
.B wiki-textify.

.B wiki-articles 
reads Wikipedia XML databases (http://dumps.wikimedia.org/enwiki/) and extracts
article markup. The extracted markup is written to standard output, with
articles delimited by page feeds \\f.

.B wiki-textify
reads the output produced by
.B wiki-articles
and removes MediaWiki markup. The result is a plaintext version of Wikipedia
articles.

The two programs are intended to be used in a pipeline. For example,
if you have the June 2011 Wikipedia database you can convert it to
plaintext as follows:
.nf
pv enwiki-20110620-pages-articles.xml | wiki-articles | wiki-textify -h > \\
wikipedia-plaintext.txt
.fi

The output will then be saved in the file 
.I wikipedia-plaintext.txt
(if 
.B pv
is not available on your system, you can use 
.B cat
instead).

The optional flag
.B -h
suppresses section headings in the output.

.SH CLEANING UP TEXT
Autocorpus includes utilities for cleaning up text: 
.B sentences
and
.BR tokenize .

.B sentences
splits its input into separate sentences, one per output
line.  It also splits paragraphs by inserting an extra linebreak
between the last and first sentences of consecutive paragraphs.

.B tokenize 
normalizes words within sentences by downcasing all characters
and making sure words are separated by exactly one space.
By default it also ignores text within parentheses.

For example, to clean up the text file
.I wikipedia-plaintext.txt 
and save it as 
.IR wikipedia-clean.txt ,
pipe it through both sentences and tokenize:
.nf
pv wikipedia-plaintext.txt | sentences | tokenize > \\
wikipedia-clean.txt
.fi

.SH COUNTING NGRAMS

To count ngrams in a text file, clean it up first (see section above)
and then pipe it to the
.B ngrams
utility. For example, the command below will count bigrams in
the file
.I wikipedia-clean.txt
and save the result in
.IR bigrams.txt :
.nf
pv wikipedia-clean.txt | ngrams -n 2 > bigrams.txt
.fi

The ngrams produced by the
.B ngrams
utility will appear in a random order. To sort them by decreasing counts (most
frequent ngrams first), pipe the output of 
.B ngrams
to 
.BR ngrams-sort :
.nf
pv wikipedia-clean.txt | ngrams -n 2 | ngrams-sort > bigrams.txt
.fi

.SH FILTERING NGRAMS
.B ngrams-freq-filter
lets you filter out ngrams with counts below a specified
threshold. This will allow you, among other things, to remove some noise
from your language model.

For example, to filter out ngrams with counts below 5 in the file bigrams.txt, run:
.nf
pv bigrams.txt | ngrams-freq-filter -t 5
.fi

.SH LIMITATIONS: Unicode
Currently, autocorpus only has a limited support for unicode (UTF-8).
While unicode input and output should mostly work, some characters might
not be decoded correctly.

If you encounter a Unicode issue with any of the autocorpus utilities,
an easy workaround is to use an ASCII converter, e.g.  
.BR uni2ascii .

Before passing input data to autocorpus tools, pipe it to 
.B uni2ascii
first and then convert it back to Unicode with 
.B ascii2uni 
When you're done. For example:
.nf
pv enwiki-20110620-pages-articles.xml | uni2ascii | wiki-articles | \\
wiki-textify -h | ascii2uni > wikipedia-plaintext.txt
.fi

.SH LIMITATIONS: non-English languages 
Current release of autocorpus was designed for English corpora and
your results with other languages may vary. In particular, the
.B sentences
and
.B tokenize
utilities may have trouble breaking sentences and cleaning up punctuation
in languages other than English.

.SH AUTHOR
Autocorpus was written by Maciej Pacula (maciej.pacula@gmail.com).

The project website is http://mpacula.com/autocorpus

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR autocorpus (7),
.BR ngrams (1),
.BR ngrams (5),
.BR ngrams-freq-filter (1),
.BR ngrams-sort (1),
.BR sentences (1),
.BR tokenize (1),
.BR wiki-articles (1),
.BR wiki-textify (1),

