.TH ngrams 1 "October 16, 2011" "version 1.0" "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
.B ngrams 
\- extract n-grams from a list of sentences.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ngrams
[-n NUMBER] [-m LIMIT] [-v]

.SH DESCRIPTION 
The 
.B ngrams 
utility reads a list of sentences from standard
input and extracts n-gram counts. The counts are printed to standard
output in the following format:
.nf
<sum of counts>
C    word1 ... wordn
C    word1 ... wordn
      ...
.fi

where words are delimited by spaces and the count 
.I C
is delimited
by a tab character. Each ngram is printed on a separate line and all
ngrams are unique.

The special words 
.I <s>
and
.I </s>
denote start and end of sentences,
respectively. See
.BR ngrams (5)
for details.

.PP 
.B ngrams 
is designed to work with very large files using constant
memory, where the memory limit can be specified by the user. While the
more memory the better, 
.B ngrams
is capable of processing tens of gigabytes of
data using only a few megabytes of RAM (a disk cache is used for
auxiliary storage).

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\-n NUMBER
specify the number of words per ngram: 1 for unigrams, 2 for bigrams etc.

.TP
\-m LIMIT 
specify the maximum amount of memory (bytes) that 
.B ngrams 
can use for processing. LIMIT has to be an integer optionally followed
by one of the following multiplier suffixes: b 512, k 1024, m 1024*1024, g 1024*1024*1024.
 The default value is 500M. Nore that very small
values may have a negative effect on performance.

The value of LIMIT does not affect the maximum size of datasets that 
.B ngrams 
can process: it is possible, though not recommended, to process gigabytes
of data in a few megabytes of memory.

The actual memory used by
.B ngrams 
will be equal to c*LIMIT, where c
is a small system-dependent constant. Hence it is possible for
.B ngrams
to run out of memory even if LIMIT is less than the total amount of
available RAM. If such a situation occurs, decreasing LIMIT should
fix the issue.

.TP
\-v
turns on verbose mode. Intended for debugging only.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Command:
.nf
echo -e "this is a test\\nthis is yet another test" | ngrams -n 2
.fi
.TP
Output:
.nf
11
2	<s> this
1	a test
1	another test
1	is a
1	is yet
2	test </s>
2	this is
1	yet another
.fi

.SH AUTHOR
Autocorpus was written by Maciej Pacula (maciej.pacula@gmail.com).

The project website is http://mpacula.com/autocorpus

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR autocorpus (7),
.BR ngrams (5),
.BR ngrams-freq-filter (1),
.BR ngrams-sort (1),
.BR sentences (1),
.BR tokenize (1),
.BR wiki-articles (1),
.BR wiki-textify (1),
